Derek Simmel joined PSC as Grid Computing Specialist in 2001. Now, as Senior Information Security Officer, Derek focuses on information and systems security for sponsored projects and national and international research and education (R&E) collaborations at PSC. Derek serves as co-lead for cybersecurity management in the NSF-funded XSEDE cyberinfrastructure project, and works as a member of XSEDE's Cyberinfrastructure Integration Requirements Analysis and Capability Delivery (XCI-RACD) group, to evaluate and test grid middleware, software and services for XSEDE cyberinfrastructure and service providers.

Derek also works on cybersecurity, HPC systems infrastructure development, and data transfer services within PSC, for NSF-funded projects including PSC's Bridges and Bridges-2 HPC systems, and the NIH-funded Brain Image Library and HubMAP projects. Derek is a Co-PI for the NSF-funded Open Storage Network project.

Derek chairs The America's Grid Policy Management Authority (TAGPMA), one of three regional PMAs of the Interoperable Global Trust Federation (IGTF). Derek also serves as End-User Site Representative on the OpenHPC Technical Steering Committee, and as the representative for Academic Institution members on the Linux Foundation OpenHPC Governing Board.

Prior to working at PSC, Derek worked a Member of the Technical Staff at the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, where he served as a systems vulnerability analyst, security tutorial instructor, and author of security guidance documents for the CERT Coordination Center. From 2000-2001, Derek worked as a senior information security engineer for the Carnegie Mellon Research Institute CyberSecurity Center.